The Noble Dhāraṇī of The Supreme Accomplishment of Sitātapatrā Born from the Tathāgata’s Uṣṇīṣa,
the Great Invincible Dispeller
from the Words of the Buddha

gyagar ké du arya tathagatoshnisha sitatapatra aparadzita maha tratyam gira aparama siddha nama
dharani
In the language of India: Ārya-tathāgatoṣṇīṣa-sitātapatrāparājita-mahā-pratyaṅgirāparama-siddhā-nāma-dhāraṇī
böké du pakpa deshyin shekpé tsuktor né jungwé dukkar pochen shyen gyi mi tubpa chirdok pa chenmo
chok tu drubpa shyejawé zung
In the language of Tibet: Pakpa deshyin shekpé tsuktor né jungwé duk karpo chen shyen gyi mitubpa
chirdokpa chenmo chok tu drubpa shyejawé zung (‘phags pa de bzhin gshegs pa’i gtsug
tor nas byung ba’i gdugs dkar po can gzhan gyi mi thub pa phyir zlog pa chen po mchog tu grub
pa zhes bya ba’i gzungs)
In the English language: The Noble Incantation “The Supreme Accomplishment of the White Umbrella
Goddess Born from the Uṣṇīṣa of the Thus-Gone One, the Great Invincible Dispeller”

sangye dang changchub sempa dang pakpa nyentö dang rangsang gyé tamché la chaktsal lo
Homage to all buddhas and bodhisattvas and the noble śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas!
chomdendé shyen gyi mi tubpa tsuktor gyalmo la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed Invincible Uṣṇīṣa Queen!1

diké dak gi töpé dü chik na chomdendé sumchu tsa sumpé lhé né chö zang lhé dünsa na gelong gi
gendün chenpo dang changchub sempé gendün chenpo dang lhé wangpo gyajin dang tab chik tu
shyuk so dé tsé chomdendé den shampa nyi la shyuk né tsuktor nampar tawa shyejawé ting ngé
dzin la nyompar shyuk so nyompar shyuk ma tak tu chomdendé kyi tsuktor gyi ü né sang ngak
kyi tsik didak jung ngo
Thus I have heard: At one time the Blessed One was dwelling in the Excellent Dharma Assembly
Hall2 in the Heaven of the Thirty-Three, together with a great assembly of monks, a great
assembly of bodhisattvas, and Indra, the lord of the gods. As soon as the Blessed One sat
down upon a seat arranged for him, he entered the samādhi called, “Seeing the Uṣṇīṣa in its
True Aspect.” As soon as he entered this samādhi, the words of this  mantra formula took
birth from the center of the Blessed One’s uṣṇīṣa:

sangye la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Buddha.
chö la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Dharma.
gendün la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Saṅgha.
yangdakpar dzokpé sangye jewa trak dün la chaktsal lo
Homage to the seventy million complete and perfect buddhas.
changchub sempé gendün dang nyentö kyi gendün nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to the saṅgha of bodhisattvas and the saṅgha of śrāvakas.
jampa lasokpa changchub sempa sempa chenpo tamché la chaktsal lo
Homage to Maitreya and all the bodhisattva mahāsattvas.
jikten na drachompa nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to the arhats in this world.
gyündu shyukpa nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to the stream-enterers.
len chik chir ongwa nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to the once-returners.
chir mi ongwa nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to the never-returners.
jikten na yangdakpar songwa nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to those who have reached perfection in this world.
yangdakpar shyukpa nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to those who have set out towards perfection.
lhé drangsong möpa dorwa nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to the divine ṛṣis who have the power to curse others.
rik ngakchang drubpé drangsong pendok nüpa nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to the ṛṣis who have become vidyādharas with the power to benefit others.
rik ngakchang drubpa nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to the accomplished holders of vidyā-mantras.
tsangpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to Brahma.
wangpo la chaktsal lo
Homage to Indra.
lekden drakpo katub dokpé dakpo dang chepa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the blessed3 Rudra along with Umāpati.
lekden semé kyi bu chakgya chenpo ngé chak jepa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the blessed Nārāyaṇa worshipped by the five great mudrās.4
lekden nakpo chenpo drongkhyer sum tsek jikpar jepa durtrö na nepar möpa mamö tsok kyi chak
jepa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the blessed Mahākāla who is believed to reside in the charnel ground, destroyer of
the Tripura cities,5 worshipped by hordes of mātṛs.6
chomdendé deshyin shekpé dung la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One of the tathāgata family.
chomdendé pemö dung la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One of the lotus family.
chomdendé dorjé dung la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One of the vajra family.
chomdendé norbü dung la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One of the jewel family.
chomdendé langpö dung la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One of the elephant family.
chomdendé shyönnü dung la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One of the youthful family.
chomdendé lü dung la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One of the nāga family.
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye pa tenpé dé tsönché gyalpo la chaktsal
lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha Dṛḍha-śūraraṇa-sena-praharaṇa-rāja.7
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye ö pak tu mepa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha Amitābha.
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye mikyöpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha Akṣobhya.
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye men gyi la baiduryé ö kyi gyalpo
la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha, the Master
of Medicine, the King with the Radiance of Lapis Lazuli.8
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye salé wangpö gyalpo metok küntu gyepa
la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha King Śāla
Trees in Full Bloom.9
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye shakya tubpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha Śākyamuni.
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye rinpoche tok gi gyalpo la chaktsal
lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha King Marked
by Jewels.10
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye kuntuzangpo la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha Samantabhadra.
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye nampar nang dzé la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha Vairocana.
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpa dzokpé sangye chen gyepa utpalé dri tok gi gyalpo
la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha King Marked
by the Scent of Blossoming Kamala and Utpala Flowers.11

denam la chaktsal né chomdendé deshyin shekpé tsuktor né jungwé dukkar pochen shyen gyi mi tubpa
chirdok pa chenmo di jungpö dön tamché tsarchöpar jepa shyen gyi rik ngak tamché chöpar
jepa düpa mayinpar chiwa tamché dokpa semchen söpa dang chingpa tamché lé drolwar jepa
dangwa dang milam ngenpa té ngenpa tamché dokpa nöjin dang sinpö dön tamché jikpar jepa dön
tongtrak gyechu tsa shyi jikpar jepa gyukar nyishu tsa gyé gawar jepa za chenpo gyé jikpar
jepa dra tamché dokpar jepa marungpa dang dangwa dang milam ngenpa tamché jikpar jepa duk
dang tsön tamché dang mé dang chu lé dokpar jepa ngendrö jikpa tamché lé drolwa té
Having payed homage to these tathāgatas, I will proclaim the vidyā-mantra of Sitātapatrā Born
from the Blessed Tathāgata’s Uṣṇīṣa, Great Invincible Dispeller. This goddess annihilates
all evil bhūtas; breaks all opposing spells; averts all forms of untimely death; frees from
all that slays or binds beings; averts all malice, nightmares, and bad omens; dispels
evil influences of yakṣas and rākṣasas; destroys the 84,000 types of grahas;12 renders the
twenty-eight lunar mansions favourable; subdues the evil influences of the eight great planets;13
repels all enemies; destroys all fierce acts, hostilities and nightmares; reples
poisons, weapons, fire, and water; and liberates from the fearful lower realms. She is renowned
as:14
shyen gyi mi tub drakshul ché
The Undefeated, the Greatly Terrible,
tumpa chenmo tobchenmo
The Greatly Fierce, the Greatly Powerful,
barwa chenmo ziji ché
The Greatly Blazing, the One of Great Energy,
kar chen bar treng gökarmo
The One with the Blazing Garland, the White-Clothed One,
pakma drolma tronyer chen
Noble Tārā, She of Knitted Brow,
gyalwé dorjé treng shyé drak
The Victorious One with the Vajra Garland,
pemé ngön tsen dorjé tsen
Lotus Radiance, the One with the Vajra Sign,
shyen gyi mi tub trengwachen
The Undefeated, Garland,
dorjé chuchen nam gekmo
The Vajra-Beaked, the Vast One,
shyiwé lha nam kyi chö ma
The Peaceful One Worshipped by the Prince of Videha,
shyiwa ser gyi trengwachen
The Peaceful One with a Golden Mālā,
kar chen barwa gökarmo
The Great White One, the Flaming One, the White-Clothed One,
pakma drolma tobchenmo
Noble Tārā, the Greatly Powerful,
dorjé lugu gyüshyen dang
The One with the Vajra Shackles, the Other,
dorjé shyönnu rikdzin ma
The Vajra Maiden, the Scion,
lak na dorjé rik ser treng
The One with Vajra in Hand, the One with a Golden Garland,
legen tsi dang rinchen ma
The One with a Saffron-Jewel,
nang dzé dorjé tsuktor drak
The Illuminator, and the One Renowned as Vajroṣṇīṣa—
chakgya dang ngak kyi tsok dedak tamché kyi dak khor dang chepa dang semchen tamché sung du
sol
All of you mudrā and mantra deities,15 please protect us, our family and friends, and all sentient
beings!

om sarva tatagatoshnisha sita tapatré hung droom hrih trom | dzambhana kari hung droom hrih
trom | tambhana kari hung droom hrih trom | mohana kari hung droom hrih trom | sambhakshana
kari hung droom hrih trom | bendhana kari hung droom hrih trom | para vika bhakshana kari
hung droom hrih trom | sarva dushta tradushtanam tambhana kari hung droom hrih trom | sarva
yaksha rakshasa graha nam bidham sana kari hung droom hrih trom | sarva para vidyatsé
dana kari hung droom hrih trom | tsaturashiti nam graha saha sanam bidham sana kari hung droom
hrih trom | ashta bimshati nam nakshatra nam trasadhana kari hung droom hrih trom | ashta
nam maha graha nam bidham sana kari hung droom hrih trom | raksha raksha mam sarva satamtsa
|
oṃ sarva-tathāgatoṣṇīṣa-sitātapatre hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ | jambhana-karī hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ |stambhana-karī
hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ | mohana-karī hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ | sambhakṣaṇa-karī hūṃ drūṃ
hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ | bandhana-karī hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ | paraviṣa-bhakṣa-karī hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ
| sarva-duṣṭa-pra-duṣṭān stambhana-karī hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ |  sarva-yakṣa-rākṣasa-grahāṇāṃ
vidhvaṃsana-karī hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ | sarva-para-vidyācchedana-karī hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ |
catur-aśītināṃ graha-sahasrāṇāṃ vidhvaṃsana-karī hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ | aṣṭā-viṃśatīnāṃ nakṣatrāṇāṃ
prasādana-karī hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ | aṣṭānāṃ mahā-grahāṇāṃ vidhvaṃsana-karī hūṃ drūṃ
hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ | rakṣa rakṣa māṃ sarva-sattvāṃś ca |

chomden dema deshyin shekpé tsuktor né jungwé dukkar pochen dorjé tsuktor chirdok pa chenmo
chak tong ngawa chenmo u tong ngawa chenmo chen jewa gya tong ngawa chenmo miché barwé tsentak
chen dorjé yangpa chen mö sa sum gyi kyilkhor du dak dang semchen tamché delek su gyur
chik
Blessed Sitātapatrā Born from Tathāgata’s Uṣṇīṣa, Vajroṣṇīṣā, Great Dispeller, great goddess
with a thousand arms, great goddess with a thousand heads, great goddess with a trillion16
eyes and indestructible blazing characteristics, Great Exalted Vajra Goddess,17 bring about
well being for us and all sentient beings within the maṇḍala of the three planes of existence!18
nampar gying mé dorjé dang
Gaping Jeweled Vajra,19
ser ö tabü chen nga ma
She whose Eyes Have a Golden Radiance,
dorjé drö dang karmo dang
Vajra-Beaked, the White One,
pemé chen dang da ö dang
Lotus-Eyes, the One with the Radiance of the Moon,
sangye pal dang deshyin chen
Awakened Eyes, the Lacquered One,
dorjé nyimé ö dang ni
Vajrā, the One with Golden Radiance,
deshyin dawa dorjé dzin
The Moon, and the Vajra Holder—
rigpa dang chakgya dang sang ngak kyi tsok dedak tamché kyi dak dang semchen tamché künné sungwar
dzé du sol
Please, all of you vidyā, mudrā, and secret mantra deities, completely protect us and all sentient
beings!

om rishi gana trashasta sarva tatagatoshnisha sitatapatré hung droom | dzambhana kari hung droom
| tambhana kari hung droom | maha vidya sambhakshana kari hung droom | para vidya sambhakshana
kari hung droom | sarva dushta nam tambhana kari hung droom | sarva yaksha rakshasa
graha nam bidham sana kari hung droom | tsaturashiti nam graha saha sanam bidham sana
kari hung droom | ashta bimshati nam nakshatra nam trasadhana kari hung droom | ashta nam
maha graha nam bidham sana kari hung droom | hung hung pé pé raksha raksha mam soha |
oṃ ṛṣi-gaṇa-praśaste sarva-tathāgatoṣṇīṣa-sitātapatre hūṃ drūṃ | jambhana-karī hūṃ drūṃ | stambhana-karī
hūṃ drūṃ | para-vidyā-stambhana-karī hūṃ drūṃ | sarva-sarvaduṣṭānāṃ stambhana-karī
hūṃ drūṃ | sarva-yakṣa-rākṣasa-grahāṇāṃ vidhvaṃsana-karī hūṃ drūṃ | catur-aśitīnāṃ graha-sahasrāṇāṃ
vidhvaṃsana-karī hūṃ drūṃ | aṣṭā-viṃśatīnāṃ nakṣatrāṇāṃ prasādana-karī hūṃ
drūṃ | aṣṭānāṃ mahā-grahāṇāṃ vidhvaṃsana-karī hūṃ drūṃ | hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ rakṣa rakṣa māṃ
svāhā |

chomden dema deshyin shekpé tsuktor né jungwé dukkar pochen dorjé tsuktor chirdok pa chenmo
chak tong ngawa chenmo u tong ngawa chenmo chen jewa gya tong ngawa chenmo miché barwé tsentak
chen dorjé yangpa chen mö sa sum gyi kyilkhor la ngadzema kün dak la sung du sol
Blessed Sitātapatrā Born from the Uṣṇīṣa of the Tathāgata, Vajroṣṇīṣā, Great Dispeller, great
goddess with a thousand arms, great goddess with a thousand heads, great goddess with a
trillion eyes and indestructible blazing characteristics, Great Exalted Vajra Goddess, ruler
of the maṇḍala of the three planes of existence, please protect us all!

dak dang semchen tamché gyalpö jikpa dang künpö jikpa dang mé jikpa dang chü jikpa dang duk
gi jikpa dang tsön gyi jikpa dang parol gyi mak tsok kyi jikpa dang mugé jikpa dang dré jikpa
dang ché babpé jikpa dang dü mayinpar chiwé jikpa dang sa yowé jikpa dang karda tungwé
jikpa dang gyalpö chepé jikpa dang lha kyi jikpa dang lü jikpa dang lok gi jikpa dang namkha
ding gi jikpa dang chenzen trowö jikpa dang
May my and all beings’ welfare prevail over the dangers of rulers, thieves, fire, water, poison,
weaponry, opposing armies, famines, adversaries, storms, untimely death, earthquakes,
meteors, royal punishment, gods, nāgas, lightning, garuḍas and ferocious beasts.

lhé dön dang lü dön dang lha mayin gyi dön dang lunglhé dön dang namkha ding gi dön dang drizé
dön dang mi'amchi dön dang to ché chenpö dön dang nöjin gyi dön dang sinpö dön dang yidak
kyi dön dang shazé dön dang jungpö dön dang drulbum gyi dön dang sulpö dön dang lü sulpö
dön dang kem jé kyi dön dang jé jé kyi dön dang nyo jé kyi dön dang drib nön gyi dön dang
nönpö dön dang khandromé dön dang namdrü dön dang shinjé dön dang jé dön dang mamo gawar
jepé dön dang küntu trengwé dön dang tserma dönpé dön lé dak delek su gyur chik
May my and all beings’ welfare prevail over all evil influences from devas, nāgas, asuras, maruts,
garuḍas, gandharvas, kiṃnaras, mahoragas, yakṣas, rākṣasas, pretas, piśācas, bhūtas,
kumbhāṇḍas, pūtanas, kaṭapūtanas, skandas, apasmāras, unmādas, chāyās, ostārakas, ḍākinīs,
revatīs, yāmakas, śakunis, mātṛnandīs, samikās and kaṇṭakamālinīs!

zé su dang zawa dang zé su ngal zawa dang zé su traktung ba dang zé su shyak zawa dang zé su
shaza ba dang zé su tsil zawa dang zé su kang zawa dang zé su tsepa zawa dang sok trokpa
dang zé su kyukpa zawa dang zé su chisa zawa dang zé su chin tungwa dang zé su tor khung né
babpa tungwa dang zé su lhakma zawa dang zé su chilma tungwa dang zé su nab zawa dang zé
su ngarnab zawa dang zé su mi tsangwa zawa dang zé su torma zawa dang zé su trengwa zawa
dang zé su driza ba dang zé su dukpa zawa dang sem trokpa dang zé su metok zawa dang zé su
drebu zawa dang zé su lotok zawa dang zé su jinsek zawé dön lé dak la sungwa gyi shik
Protect us against evil spirits who feed upon vitality and fetuses; drink blood and feed on
fat, flesh, grease, marrow and newborns; steal life force and feed on vomit, feces and urine;
drink from cesspools; devour leftovers; drink saliva; consume snot, mucus, filth, oblations,
flower garlands, perfumes and incense; prey on people’s minds; and who consume flowers,
fruits, grains, and burnt offerings!

dön dedak tamché kyi rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of all evil beings!20
küntugyü jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of wandering mendicants!
khandro dang khandromé jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of ḍākas and ḍākinīs!
tsangpé jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of Brahma!
wangchuk chenpö jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of Maheśvara!21
semé kyi bü jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of Nārāyaṇa!
namkha ding yangdakpa dang lhenchikpé jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells cast simultaneously by Garuḍa!22
nakpo chenpö jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of Mahākāla!
mamö tsok nam kyi jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of the hordes of mātṛs!
mi töpachen gyi jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of kāpālikas!
gyalwar jepa dang drangtsir jepa dang dön kün drubpé jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of Jayakara, Madhukara, and Sarvārthasiddhikara!
singmo shyi jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of the Four Bhaginīs!
bhring giriti dang gajé wangchuk dang tsok kyi dakpo dang lhenchikpé jepé rik ngak ché do purbü
dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of Bhṛṅgiriṭi, Nandikeśvara, and Gaṇapati
gejong cherbü jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of naked ascetics!
gejong go rek gi jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of shaven-headed ascetics!
drachompé jepé rik ngak chö do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of arhats!
döchak dang dralwé jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of vītarāgas!23
jikten wangchuk khor dang chepé jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of Lokeśvara and his retinue!
lak na dorjé khor dang chepé jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of Vajrapāṇi and his retinue!
ponya dang ponyamo dang dren po dang dren mö jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of dūtas, dūtīs, ceṭas, and ceṭīs!
drangsong gi tsok tamché kyi jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of all the assemblies of sages!
lhé tsok tamché kyi jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of the hosts of gods!
mi tröpa zawé tsok kyi jepé rik ngak ché do purbü dabwo
I cut and pin down the spells of the lords of those who desire harm!

chomden dema deshyin shekpé tsuktor né jungwé dukkar pochen sangye dang changchub sempa tamché
kyi chak jepa la chaktsal lo dak la sung du sol sung du sol
Homage to Blessed Sitātapatrā Born from the Tathāgata’s Uṣṇīṣa, worshipped by all the buddhas
and bodhisattvas! Protect us—protect us, please!

om asitana larka trabha saputa bika sitatapatré | om dzala dzala khada khada hana hana dara
dara bidara bidara tsinda tsinda bhinda bhinda bendha bendha hung hung pé pé soha |
oṃ asitānalārka-prabhā-sphuṭa-vikāsitātapatre | oṃ jvala jvala khāda khāda hana hana dara dara
vidara vidara cchinda cchinda bhinda bhinda bandha bandha hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ svāhā |
This is the heart essence mantra.

hé hé pé | ho ho pé | amoghaya pé | atrati hataya pé | bara daya pé | bara tradaya pé | tratyam
giri taya pé | asura bidra yana karaya pé | para bidra pana karaya pé | sarva debe bé
pé | sarva nagé bé pé | sarva yakshé bé pé | sarva rakshasé bé pé | sarva bhuté bé pé | sarva
preté bé pé | sarva pishatsé bé pé | sarva putané bé pé | sarva kata putané bé pé | sarva
skandhé bé pé | sarva omadé bé pé | sarva tsaya bé pé | sarva apa samaré bé pé | sarva
otara ké bé pé | sarva dakini bé pé | sarva repati bé pé | sarva yamayé bé pé | sarva shakuni
bé pé | sarva matri gané bé pé | sarva kambuka mini bé pé | sarva alampaké bé pé | sarva
kata putané bé pé | sarva gandé bé pé | sarva gandhavé bé pé | sarva asuré bé pé | sarva
kennaré bé pé | sarva garudé bé pé | sarva maho ragé bé pé | sarva durli kité bé pé | sarva
dutré kshité bé pé | sarva dzaré bé pé | sarva bhayé bé pé | sarva opadrabé bé pé | sarva
opasargé bé pé | sarva trite karmané kakhordé bé pé | kirané betadé bé pé | tsitsa treshaka
sarva dushtsa radité bé pé | sarva durbhukaté bé pé | sarva tirtiké bé pé | sarva shramané
bé pé | sarva pataké bé pé | sarva bidya dharé bé pé | dzaya kara madhu kara siddhi
kara sarva arta sadhaké bayo vidya tsaryé bé pé | tsatur bayo bhagi nam bé pé | benza kaumari
yé benza kulam dhari bidya tsaryé bé pé | sarva maha tratim giré bé pé | benza shamka
laya tratim gira radzaya pé | mahakalaya matri gana na matri tiyé pé | tramaniyé pé | vishna
biyé pé | mahé shoriyé pé | raudriyé pé | mahakaliyé pé | tsa mundiyé pé | kaumariyé
pé | barahiyé pé | indrayé pé | agniyé pé | yamayé pé | niritiyé pé | barunayé pé | marutiyé
pé | somayé pé | ishaniyé pé | kala dandiyé pé | kala rattiyé pé | yama dandi yé pé | yama
ratriyé pé | kapa liyé pé | adhi mukti shma shana basiniyé pé | om trom bendha bendha
raksha raksha mam soha |
he he phaṭ | ho ho phaṭ | amoghāya phaṭ | apratihatāya phaṭ | varadāya phaṭ | varapradāya phaṭ
| pratyaṅgiritāya phaṭ | asuravidrāyaṇakarāya phaṭ |  paravidrāpaṇakarāya phaṭ |  sarvadevebhyaḥ
phaṭ |  sarvanāgebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvayakṣebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvarākṣasebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvabhūtebhyaḥ
phaṭ | sarvapretebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvapiśācebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvakumbhāṇḍebhyaḥ phaṭ
| sarvapūtanebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvakaṭapūtanebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-skandebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvonmādebhyaḥ
phaṭ | sarva cchāyebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvāpasmārebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvostārakebhyaḥ phaṭ |
sarva-ḍākinībhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-revatībhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-yāmakebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-śakunibhyaḥ
phaṭ | sarva-mātṛ-gaṇebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-kambukāminībhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvālaṃbakebhyaḥ phaṭ
| sarva-kaṭapūtanebhyaḥ phaṭ  | sarva-gaṇḍebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-gandharvebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarvāsurebhyaḥ
phaṭ | sarva-kinnarebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-garuḍebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-mahoragebhyaḥ phaṭ
|  sarva-durlikhitebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva duḥprekṣitebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-jvarebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-bhayebhyaḥ
phaṭ |  sarvopadravebhyaḥ phaṭ |  sarvopasargebhyaḥ phaṭ |  sarva-kṛtya-karmaṇekākhordebhyaḥ
phaṭ | kiraṇa-vaitāḍebhyaḥ phaṭ | cicha-preṣaka-sarva-duścharditebhyaḥ
phaṭ | sarva-durmuktebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-tīrthakebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-śramaṇebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-pātakebhyaḥ
phaṭ | sarva-vidyādharebhyaḥ phaṭ |  jayakara-madhukara-siddhikara-sarvārthasādhakebhyo
vidyācāryebhyaḥ phaṭ | caturbhyo bhaginībhyaḥ phaṭ | vajra-kaumārīye kulaṃdhare
vidyācaryebhyaḥ phaṭ | sarva-mahāpratyaṅgirebhyaḥ phaṭ | vajra-śaṃkalāya-pratyaṅgirarājāya
phaṭ | mahākālāya-mātṛ-gaṇa-namas-kṛtīye phaṭ |  brahmāyaṇīye phaṭ | viṣṇāvīye phaṭ |
maheśvarīye phaṭ | raudrīye phaṭ | mahākālīye phaṭ | cāmuṇḍīye phaṭ | kaumārīye phaṭ | vārāhīye
phaṭ | indrāye phaṭ | agniye phaṭ | yamāye phaṭ | niritīye phaṭ | varuṇāye phaṭ | mārutīye
phaṭ | somaye phaṭ | īṣānīye phaṭ | kālādarīye phaṭ | kālārātriye phaṭ | yamadāḍhīye
phaṭ | yamarātrīye phaṭ | kapālīye phaṭ | adhimukti-śmaśānavāsinīye phaṭ | oṃ stoṃ bandha
bandha rakṣa rakṣa māṃ svāhā |

semchen gang su dak dak la dukpa dang dukpé sem dang denpa nam dang drakshul dang drakshul gyi
sem dang denpa nam dang dikpa dang dikpé sem dang denpa nam dang trukpa dang trukpé semchen
dang denpa nam dang dangwa dang dangwé sem dang denpa nam jampé sem dang denpar gyur
né dak dang semchen tamché sung du sol
Impart a loving mindset to all those who are harmful and aim to do us harm, who are dangerous
or harbor dangerous intentions, who are evil or harbor evil intentions, who are angry or
harbor angry intentions, who are aggressive or harbor aggressive intentions! Protect us and
all beings!
lo gya tsowar gyur chik
Make us live a hundred years!
tön gya tongwar gyur chik
Let us see a hundred autumns!

nöjin dang dön gang su dak zé su dang zawa nam dang zijin trokpa nam dang zé su ngal zawa nam
dang zé su traktung ba nam dang zé su shyak zawa nam dang zé su shaza ba nam dang zé su
tsil zawa nam dang zé su kang zawa nam dang zé su tsepa zawa nam dang sok trokpa nam dang
zé su lhakma zawa nam dang zé su torma zawa nam dang zé su trengwa zawa nam dang zé su driza
ba nam dang zé su dukpa zawa nam dang zé su metok zawa nam dang zé su drebu zawa nam dang
zé su lotok zawa nam dang zé su jinsek zawa nam dang zé su nak zawa nam dang zé su chisa
zawa nam dang zé su chin tungwa nam dang zé su chilma tungwa nam dang zé su kyukpa zawa
nam dang zé su nab zawa nam dang zé su ngarnab zawa nam dang zé su mi tsangwa zawa nam dang
zé su tor khung né babpa tungwa nam dang dikpé sem dang denpa nam dang dukpé sem dang denpa
nam dang drakshul gyi sem dang denpa nam dang trukpé sem dang denpa nam dang dangwé sem
dang denpa nam dang lhé dön nam dang lü dön nam dang lha mayin gyi dön nam dang nöjin gyi
dön nam dang sinpö dön nam dang jungpö dön nam dang yidak kyi dön nam dang shazé dön nam
dang kumbhandé dön nam dang sulpö dön nam dang lü sulpö dön nam dang kem jé kyi dön nam dang
nyo jé kyi dön nam dang drib nön gyi dön nam dang jé jé kyi dön nam dang nönpö dön nam
dang khandromé dön nam dang namdrü dön nam dang shinjé dön nam dang jé dön nam dang mamo
gawar jepé dön nam dang küntu drangwé dön nam dang ré dé dönpé dön nam dang tserma dönpé dön
nam lé dak sungwar dzé du sol
Protect us from yakṣas and those who steal radiance, vitality, and fetuses; who drink blood;
feed on fat, flesh, grease, marrow and newborns; who steal life; feed on leftovers, oblations,
flower garlands, perfumes and incense; who devour flowers, fruits, grains, and burnt
offerings; feed on pus and feces; drink urine and saliva; consume vomit, snot, mucus, and
filth; drink from cesspools; and from beings who harbor evil, harmful, dangerous, angry,
or aggressive intentions. Protect us from all evil influences from devas, nāgas, asuras, yakṣas,
rākṣasas, bhūtas, pretas, piśācas, kumbhāṇḍas, pūtanas, kaṭapūtanas, skandas, unmādas,
chāyās, apasmāras, ostārakas, ḍākinīs, revatīs, yāmakas, śakunis, mātṛnandīs, samikās,
ālambhanas and kaṇṭakamālinīs!
lo gya tsowar gyur chik
Make us live a hundred years!
tön gya tongwar gyur chik
Let us see a hundred autumns!

rim nyin chikpa nam dang nyin nyipa nam dang nyin sumpa nam dang nyin shyipa nam dang nyin dünpa
nam dang takpé rim nam dang rim mizepa nam dang jungpö rim nam dang lung lé gyurpa nam
dang tripa lé gyurpa nam dang beken lé gyurpa nam dang düpa lé gyurpa nam dang rimné tamché
dang lepa nawa sal du sol
Dispel all infectious diseases, whether they last a day, two days, three days, four days, or
seven days; whether they are chronic or intolerable, whether they are caused by spirits,
arise from disturbances in the wind, bile, phlegm, or from their combination; and all illnesses
of the brain!

shyok ché nawa dang yi ga chüpa dang mik né dang na né dang kha né dang gul né dang nying né
dang kokmé lha gor nawa dang nawa nawa dang so nawa dang nying nawa dang né nawa dang tsib
lok nawa dang gyab nawa dang towa nawa dang kepa nawa dang chuso nawa dang la anwa dang
jé ngar nawa dang lakpa nawa dang kangpa nawa dang yenlak nawa dang nying lak nawa sal du
sol
Dispel hemiplegia, loss of appetite, illnesses of the eyes, nose, mouth, throat, or heart, pain
in the larynx, ears, teeth, heart, joints, ribs, back, stomach, waist, urinary tract,
thigh, calf, hands, feet, and all the major and minor parts of the body!

dukkar pochen dorjé tsuktor chirdok pa chenmo di paktsé chunyi kyi nang tsünché du jungpo dang
rolang dang khandroma dang nöjin dang sinpo dang rimné dang shuwa dang yawa dang drum bu
tramo dang tsenpar dolwa dang dzé dang pol mik dang bé dak dang mewal dang yenpa dang lhokpa
dang kempa dang trakpa dang lüpa luwa dang uk midewa dang mi drenpa dang yik duk dang
duk jar ma dang jé dang mé dang chu dang mi ngé dang dü dang chingwa dang dra dang gönpa
dang dü mayinpar chiwa dang drangbu tryebuka dang trilataka dang dikpa dang drul dang semo
dang sengé dang tak dang dom dang dré dang yak gö dang chusin lasokpé sokchak nam sal du
sol
Sitātapatrā, Vajroṣṇīṣā, Great Dispeller, disperse everything for miles around24 such as bhūtas,
vetālas, ḍākinīs, yakṣas, rākṣasas, infectious diseases, fluid-filled and ulcerative
skin lesions, smallpox and other pustule-forming diseases, genital and perineal fistulas,
leprosy, dermatophytosis and other radiating ringed papuled skin rashes, grey cutaneous scaling
conditions, burn-like ulcers, cutaneous inflammation, muscle inflammation, emaciation,
anxiety, productive cough, labored breathing, memory loss, metal poisoning, poisoning by
compound toxins, sorcery, fire, water, epidemics, māras, imprisonment, adveseries, banishment,
untimely death, insects,25, horseflies,26 scorpions, snakes, mongooses, lions, tigers,
bears, hyenas, feral yaks, sea-monsters,27 and other creatures.
dedak tamché kyi rik ngak chingwar gyi o
I suppress their spells!
ziji chingwar gyi o
I suppress their energy!
shyen tamché kyi rik ngak chingwar gyi o
I suppress all other spells!
tsam chingwar gyi o
I suppress all bonds!

teyata | om analé analé | khasamé khasa mé | biré biré | saumé saumé | shanté shanté | danté
danté | bikadé bikadé | bairé bairé | devi benza dhari | bendha bendha ni | benza pani pé
| om hung droom | hrih trom pé soha | om benza pani bendha bendha benza pashe nama sarva
dushta bighnam binaya kam hung hung pé pé soha |
tadyathā | oṃ anale anale | khasame khasame | vīre vīre | saumye saumye | śānte śānte | dānte
dānte | viṣade viṣade | vaire vaire | devi vajradhari |  bandha bandhani | vajrapāṇi phaṭ
| oṃ hūṃ drūṃ hrīḥ ṣṭoṃ phaṭ svāhā | oṃ vajrapāṇi bandha bandha vajrapāśena sarva-duṣṭa-vighnān-vinyāyakān
hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ svāhā ||
This is the quintessence mantra.

sü deshyin shekpa tamché kyi tsuktor né jungwé dukkar pochen shyen gyi mi tubpa chirdok pé rik
ngak kyi gyalmö di droga am ré sam shingshün la dri té lü sam gul du tok sam lokpar jé
na dé la jisi tsö bardu duk gyi mitsuk tsön gi mitsuk mé yi mitsuk chü mitsuk yik duk gi mitsuk
duk jar mé mitsuk jé kyi mitsuk dü mayinpar chiwar dü jepar mingyur ro dön tamché dang
gek tamché dang lokdren tamché kyang gawar gyur ro dorjé rik jewa trak trik gya tongtrak
gyechu tsabshyi nam dang drubpé lhamo nam kyi kyang dé la taktu tünpar sungwa dang kyobpa
dang bepar jé do denam kyi yi du ongwa dang gawar yang gyur ro kalpa chenpo tongtrak gyechu
tsa shyir kyewa drenpar gyur ro dorjé ponyamo drukchu tsa shyi yang takpar chishyin yongsu
kyongwar gyur ro nam du yang nöjin dang sinpo dang yidak dang shaza dang sulpo dang lü
sulpo nyi du mingyur ro mi ulpor mingyur ro sangye chomdendé drangmé pak tu mepa gang gé
lung gi jema nyé kyi sönam kyi pungpo dang denpar gyur ro sangye chomdendé dang changchub
sempa gang gé lung gi jema nyé kyi sungwa dang kyabpa dang bepar dzé ching dedak gi tuk su
jönpa dang gyepar yang gyur ro
Whoever writes this Queen of Spells, Sitātapatrā Born from the Uṣṇīṣa of All Thus-gone Ones,
Great Invincible Dispeller, on birch bark, cloth, or tree bark and wears it on their body
or around their neck, or reads it, that person will not be harmed by toxins, weapons, fire,
water, metal poisoning, poison, or sorcery for as long as they live. They will never meet
an untimely death. They will become dear to all grahas, obstructors, and false guides.
The eighty-four billion vidyā-goddesses of the vajra family will always guard, protect, and
defend them. They will become dear to these goddesses. They will recall their rebirths of
the past eighty-four thousand great eons. The sixty-four dūtī goddesses will always completely
defend them. They will never take birth as yakṣas, rākṣasas, pretas, piśācas, pūtanas,
or kaṭapūtanas. They will never be poor. They will gain heaps of merit equal to the blessed
buddhas have who are innumerable like the grains of sand in the river Ganges. The blessed
buddhas and bodhisattvas, innumerable as the grains of sand in the river Ganges, will
always guard, protect, and defend them. They will become the children of the buddhas and
bodhisattvas.

deshyin shekpa tamché kyi tsuktor né jungwé dukkar pochen shyen gyi mi tubpa shyejawé chirdok
pé rik ngak kyi gyalmo di chang na tsangpar mi chöpa yang tsangpar chöpar gyur ro tubpar
majepa yang tubpar jepar gyur ro mi tsangwa yang tsangwar gyur ro nyungwa majepa yang nyungwa
jepar gyur ro tsammepa nga jepa yang jangwar gyur ro ngön gyi lé kyi dribpa yang malüpar
zepar gyur ro
Whoever bears this Queen of Vidyā-mantras, Great Dispeller of Invincible Might, called ‘Sitātapatrā
Born from the Uṣṇīṣa of All Tathāgatas,’ will become chaste, even if they not celibate.
Those who are not ascetics will be ascetics. Though impure, they will become pure. Though
they neglect fasting, they will start to observe the fast. Even for those who they have
committed the five crimes with immediate retribution, their crimes will be purified. All
their obscurations resulting from their past actions will be exhausted without exception.

rik kyi bu am rik kyi bumo bu döpa gang lalé deshyin shekpé tsuktor né jungwé dukkar pochen
chirdok pa chenmo rik ngak kyi gyalmo di chang ngam lok na bu döpa dé bu nyé dé tsé dang sönam
dang tob kyang rabtu nyé do di né shi pö né kyang jikten gyi kham dewachen du kyewar
gyur ro
If my noble sons or daughters wish to have children and bear or recite this Queen of Vidyā-mantras,
Sitātapatrā Born from the Uṣṇīṣa of All Tathāgatas, Great  Dispeller, they will produce
an heir. Furthermore, their lifespan, merit, and strength will increase. After they
have passed away, they will take birth in the blissful realm of Sukhāvatī.
miné dang chukné dang yam kyi né dang tsewa dang nöpa dang né gowa dang trukpa tamché dang parol
gyi mak tsok ongwa tamché la deshyin shekpé tsuktor né jungwé dukkar pochen shyejawa
shyen gyi mi tubpa chirdok pé rik ngak kyi gyalmo di gyaltsen gyi tsemo latak té rimdro cher
jé té chöpa chenpo jé la drongkhyer tamché kyi go am drong ngam drongkhyer ram drong dal
lam jong sam gönpé né su zuk so pakpa shyen gyi mi tubpa chirdok machen mo rik ngak kyi
gyalmo di rimdro cher jé té tsuk na tsuk ma tak tu yul shyiwar jepar gyur ro yam kyi né dang
tsewa dang nöpa dang né gowa dang trukpa dang parol gyi mak tsok tamché rabtu shyiwar gyur
ro
Whoever is threatened by diseases that affect humans or animals, by epidemics, violence, harm,
infectious diseases, any kind of quarrels, and any approaching rival armies, should affix
this Queen of Vidyā-mantras, the Great Dispeller of Invincible Might called ‘Sitātapatrā
Born from the Uṣṇīṣa of All Tathāgatas,’ to the top of victory banners. Once extensive worship
has been performed with great offerings, the banners should be hoisted at all gateways
to the city, or temple, or village, or town, or province, or capital, or charnel ground,
or mountain or monastery. As soon as the rituals for this noble Queen of Spells, Great
Invincible Dispeller, have been completed and the banner hoisted, war will be pacified. All
epidemics, violence, harm, infectious diseases, quarrels, and approaching rival armies will
be completely quelled.

teyata | om trom bendha bendha mama raksha raksha soha | om trom bendha bendha benza mama raksha
raksha benza pani hung pé soha | om sarva tatagatoshnisha analé avalokité tsurnaté dzarayi
| om dzala dzala | dhaka dhaka | dhara dhara | bidara bidara | tsinda tsinda | bhinda
bhinda | hung hung pé pé soha | om sarva tatagatoshnisha hung pé soha |
tadyathā | oṃ ṣṭom bandha bandha mama rāḳsa rāḳsa svāhā || oṃ ṣṭoṃ bandha bandha vajra mama
rāḳsa rāḳsa vajrapāṇi hūṃ phaṭ svāhā || oṃ sarva-tathāgatoṣṇīṣānale avalokite curṇate jvarāśi
|| oṃ jvala jvala dhaka dhaka dhara dhara vidhara vidhara cchinda cchinda bhindha bhindha
hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ svāhā || oṃ sarvatathāgatoṣṇīṣa hūṃ phaṭ svāhā ||
teyata | om analé analé | khasamé khasa mé | bairé bairé | saumé saumé | sarva buddha adhishtina
adhishtité sarva tatagatoshnisha sita tapatré hung pé | hung ma ma hung ni soha |
tadyathā | oṃ anale anale | khasame khasame | vaire vaire | saumye saumye | sarva-buddhādiṣṭhānādhiṣṭhite
sarva-tathāgatoṣṇīṣa-sitātapatre hūṃ phaṭ | hūṃ ma ma hūṃ ni svāhā ||

lü gyalpo tayé dang lü gyalpo dungkyong dang lü gyalpo nakpo chenpo nam kyi dü dü su charbeb
so dü dü su trin dü do dü dü su druk gi dra drokpar gyur ro
The nāga-kings Ananta, Śaṅkhapāla, and Mahākṛṣṇa will send rain, clouds, and thunder in a timely
manner.
nyewar tsewa tamché la sangye kyi naljor du jé la len sum depar ja o
For any type of danger this should be recited three times with the yoga of the Buddha.
sangye dang changchub sempa nam dang lha dang mi dang lha mayin dang drizar chepé jikten yirang
té chomdendé kyi sungpa la ngönpar tö do
The buddhas and bodhisattvas, together with the whole world of gods, humans, asuras, and gandharvas
rejoiced and praised the speech of the Blessed One.
pakpa deshyin shekpé tsuktor né jungwa dukkar pochen shyen gyi mi tubpa chenmo chirdok pa chok
tu drubpa shyejawé zung dzok so
Thus concludes the noble dhāraṇī “The Supreme Accomplishment of Sitātapatrā Born from the Tathāgata’s
Uṣṇīṣa, Great Invincible Dispeller.”

This translation was finalized on the basis of comparisons with an old manuscript from the Amṛtabhavana
monastery in Kashmir28 by the paṇḍita Parahitabhadra and the lotsāwa Zu Gador.29

| Translated by Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (Stefan Mang, Lowell Cook and Peter Woods), 2020.
Wiesiek Mical kindly offered further suggestions and clarifications based on the Sanskrit.
Revised with many thanks to Ryan Conlon and Paul Thomas, 2021.

Tibetan source: ’phags pa de bzhin gshegs pa’i gtsug tor nas byung ba’i gdugs dkar po can gzhan
gyis mi thub pa phyir zlog pa chen mo mchog tu grub pa zhes bya ba’i gzungs. ārya-tathāgatoṣṇīṣa-sitātapatrāparājita-mahā-pratyaṅgirāparama-siddhā-nāma-dhāraṇī.
Toh 591, Degé Kangyur
vol. 90 (rgyud, pha) folios 212.b–219.a.
Sanskrit sources: Ngawang Samten and Janardan Pandey, ed. āryasarvatathāgatoṣṇīṣasitātapatrānāmāparājitapratyaṅgiramahāvidyārājñī.
In Dhih Journal, vol. 33. Sarnath: Central Institute
of Higher Tibetan Studies 2002, pp. 145–154. And: Bailey, Harold Walter. Indo-Scythian Studies:
Being Khotanese Texts Volume V. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1963.

Version: 2.0-20210620
↑ Blessed Invincible Uṣṇīṣa Queen (*Bhagavatī Aparājitoṣṇīṣarājñī, bcom ldan ‘das gzhan gyis
mi thub pa gtsug tor rgyal mo).↑ The Excellent Dharma Assembly Hall (sudharmā devasabhā,
chos bzang lha’i ‘dun sa) is the name of the heavenly assembly hall in which Indra, king of
the gods, teaches the Dharma.↑ Following Tibor Porció’s analysis, the Tibetan term legs
ldan here is the result of a revision of the Tibetan translation. The previous Tibetan translations
read bcom ldan ‘das as a translation for the Sanskrit term bhagavat. Accordingly
we have translated the term here in English as “blessed.” See: Tibor Porció, “The One with
the White Parasol,” Ph.D. Dissertation, (University of Vienna, 2000), 22.↑ Nārāyaṇa here
is the name of a Buddha. The five great mudrās (phyag rgya chen po lnga) may be a reference
to the five female Buddhas—Bhṛkuṭī, Locanā, Māmakī, Pāṇḍaravāsinī and Tārā.↑ Tripura (tripuranagara,
grong khyer sum brtsegs) refers to a set of three mythical cities. These cities,
built by the Asura architect Maya, were made of iron, silver and gold and were located
on earth, in the sky and in heaven. They had great prosperity, power and dominance over
the world. However, due to their impious nature, Maya’s cities were destroyed by Tripurāntaka,
an aspect of Śiva. Tripura, here, could also be a reference to the three realms—the desire,
form, and formless realms.↑ Mātṛs (ma mo) comprise a variety of female spirits appearing
in different forms, shapes, colours and attributes, including, benevolent, malevolent
and undetermined female spirits. Thus they can be potentially dangerous to humans and other
beings.↑ Lit. King with Army and Weapons, Heroic and Steadfast in Battle.↑ Skt. Bhaiṣajya-guru-vaidūrya-prabha-rāja.
That is the Medicine Buddha.↑ Skt. Supuṣpa-śālendrā-rāja.↑
Skt. Ratnaketu-rāja.↑ Skt. Vikasita-kamalotpala-gandhaketu-rāja.↑ Grahas (gdon) are understood
to be both evil spirits and evil influences that are contained within or connected with
a particular spirit or deity. They are also closely associated with the planets and other
astronomical bodies. Grahas can inflict great harm on the human body and mind. For more
information, see: Gail Hinich Sutherland, The Disguises of the Demon: The Development of
the Yakṣa in Hinduism and Buddhism, (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1992), 166–167.↑
That is the potential evil influence or ‘graha’ caused by the eight planets of our
solar system.↑ This line is a translation of the Tibetan phrase “zhes grags” (iti viśrutā)
found at the end of the six line of the names of deities. What follows is a list of epithets
of Sitātapatrā, some of which are repeated. The epithets make it clear that Sitātapatrā
is identified with a number of prominent female divinities. In Sanskrit these epithets:“Aparājitā,
Mahāghorā,Mahācaṇḍā, Mahābalā,Mahājvalā, Mahātejā,Jvalamālā, Pāṇḍaravāsinī, Āryatārā,
Bhṛkuṭī,Vijayā, Vajramālā,Padmābhā, Vajracihnā,Aparājitā, Mālā, Vajratuṇḍī, Viśālī,Śāntavaidehapūjitā,Śāntakāñcanamālikā,Mahāśvetā,
Jvālā, Pāṇḍaravāsinī,Āryatārā, Mahābalā,Vajraśṛṅkhalā,
Aparā,Vajrakaumārī, Kulaṃdarī,Vajrakulaṃhastā, Kāñcanamālikā,Kusumbharatnā,Vairocanā,
and Vajroṣṇīṣaviśrutā.”↑ Mudrā (phyag rgya) and mantra (sngags) deities here refers
to the above listed deities which are forms of Sitātapatrā.↑ That is 10 to the power
of 12.↑ Great Exalted Vajra Goddess (mahāvajrodārā, rdo rje yangs pa chen mo).↑ That is all
beings living above, below and on the ground.↑ In Sanskrit these epithets are:“Vijṛmbhamānikavajrā,Kanakaprabhalocanā,Vajratuṇḍikā,
Śvetā,Kamalākṣiṇī, Śaśiprabhā,Buddhalocanā, Lākṣiṇī,Vajrā,
Kanakaprabhā,Candrā, and Vajradharā.”↑ Pandey’s (2002) and Bailey’s (1963) Sanskrit
texts confirm that the following sentences are in the first person singular present
indicative active. It is likely that the intended meaning is: “I—having invoked and requested
assistance from Sitātapatrā—cut and pin down the spells of xyz.” While the Tibetan “phur
bus gdab bo” suggests that the pinning is done by a kīla (dagger), Pandey’s (2002) and
Bailey (1963) Sanskrit texts make it clear that the Tibetan phrase is a translation of the
verb kīlayāmi from the root √kīl. Our translation here therefore follows the Sanskrit, which
reads “… vidyāṃ cchindayāmi kīlayāmi.” There is some ambiguity in these sentences as
to whether, for example, “the spells of evil beings” refers to spells cast by evil beings
themselves, or to spells cast by another person who misuses the power of the listed individuals
via a ritual..↑ Maheśvara is another name for the god Śiva. The other Sitātapatrā dhāraṇīs
(i.e. Toh. 590, 592 and 593) read Mahāpaśupati (phyugs bdag chen po) instead of Maheśvara
(dbang phyug chen po) at this point.↑ The Garuḍa is Nārāyaṇa’s mount.↑ Saints in the
Jain tradition.↑ The text literally states “protect everything within twelve yojana around
me.” Yojana (dpag tshad) is a measure of distance, often translated with “league.” The
exact value is disputed and varies in different sources from 1 to 40 km.↑ The Sanskrit term
tryambuka (sbrang bu trya ma bu ga) refers to a specific type of fly.↑ The Sanskrit term
trailāṭaka refers to a type of horsefly.↑ The Sanskrit word makara refers to a mythical sea
creature.↑ Tibor (2000: 7, fn. 18) notes that the ruins of this monastery are found in
a village called Antabavan situated about five kilometres north of Srinagar.↑ The paṇḍita
Parahitabhadra and the lotsāwa Zu Gador (gzu dga’ rdor) worked in the second half of the eleventh
century. See: George N. Roerich, The Blue Annals, (Calcutta: Royal Asiatic Society
of Bengal, 1949), 87, 325, 344, 348.