The Noble Mārīcī Dhāraṇī
from the Words of the Buddha

gyagar ké du arya maritsyé nama dharani
In the language of India: Āryamārīcī-nāma-dhāraṇī
böké du pakma özer chen shyejawé zung
In the language of Tibet: Pakma özer chen shé chawé zung (‘phags ma ‘od zer can zhes bya ba’i
gzungs)
In the English language: The Noble Incantation of Mārīcī

sangye dang changchub sempa tamché la chaktsal lo
Homage to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas!

diké dak gi töpa dü chik na
Thus have I heard.
chomdendé nyen du yöpa na gyalbu gyal jé kyi tsal gönmé zé jin gyi kün ga rawa na
Once the Blessed One was dwelling in Śrāvastī, in Anāthapiṇḍada’s garden in the Jetavana grove,
gelong gi gendün chenpo gyatrak ché dang chusum dang
Together with a great gathering of twelve hundred and fifty monks,
changchub sempa sempa chenpo mangpo dak dang tab chik tu shyuk té
And a great gathering of many bodhisattva mahāsattvas.
dené chomdendé kyi gelong nam la katsal pa
At that time, the Blessed One said to the monks:
gelong dak lhamo özer chen ma shyejawa shyik yö dé
“Monks, there is a goddess called Mārīcī.
dé nyima dang dawé dün dang dün né dro té
She travels before the sun and moon.
dé tarmé zung du mé ching du mé gak tumé gal du mé mongpar jarmé chepé ché du mé go drek tumé
shyurmé tsikpar jarmé dré wang du mi dro o
She is invisible, ungraspable, unstoppable, insuperable, indomitable, unsurpassable, unassailable,
invulnerable, unconquerable, imperishable, and invincible.
gelong dak gang gi lhamo özer chen ma dé ming shepa deyang tarmé zung du mé ching du mé gak
tumé gal du mé mongpar jarmé chepé ché du mé go drek tumé shyurmé tsikpar jarmé dé dré wang
du drowar mingyur ro
Monks, whoever recalls the goddess Mārīcī’s name likewise will become invisible, ungraspable,
unstoppable, insuperable, indomitable, unsurpassable, unassailable, invulnerable, unconquerable,
imperishable, and invincible.
detar dak gi kyang lhamo özer chen mé ming shé kyi dak kyang tar mepar gyur chik zung du mé
par gyur chik ching du mé par gyur chik gak tu mepar gyur chik gal du mé par gyur chik mongpar
jarmé par gyur chik chepé ché du mé par gyur chik go drek tu mepar gyur chik shyur mepar
gyur chik tsikpar jarmé par gyur chik dré wang du mi drowar gyur chik
Thus, I myself, by recalling the goddess Mārīcī’s name, have become invisible, ungraspable,
unstoppable, insuperable, indomitable, unsurpassable, unassailable, invulnerable, unconquerable,
imperishable, and invincible.
dé la sang ngak kyi tsik ni dinam yin no
The sacred mantra is as follows:
teyata | om patakra masi paratra masi udaya masi naira masi arka masi marka masi urama masi
vana masi gulma masi civara masi maha civara masi antar dhana masi soha ||
tadyathā | oṃ padākramasi parākramasi udayamasi nairamasi arkamasi markamasi uramamasi1 vanamasi
gulmamasi cīvaramasi mahā-cīvaramasi antardhānamasi svāhā ||
om lhamo özer chen dak lam du kyob shik | dak lam lokpa lé kyob shik | dak kyewö jikpa lé kyob
shik | dak gyalpö jikpa lé kyob shik | dak langpö jikpa lé kyob shik | dak chomkün gyi
jikpa lé kyob shik | dak lü jikpa lé kyob shik | dak sengé jikpa lé kyob shik | dak tak gi
jikpa lé kyob shik | dak mé jikpa lé kyob shik | dak chü jikpa lé kyob shik | dak drul gyi
jikpa lé kyob shik | dak duk gi jikpa lé kyob shik | dak chirgol ba dang dra tamché lé kyob
shik |
oṃ, goddess Mārīcī, please protect me on the road! Please protect me from taking wrong paths!
Please protect me from dangerous beings! Please protect me from the danger of tyrants! Please
protect me from the danger of elephants! Please protect me from the danger of thieves!
Please protect me from the danger of nāgas! Please protect me from the danger of lions!
Please protect me from the danger of tigers! Please protect me from the danger of fire! Please
protect me from the danger of water! Please protect me from the danger of snakes! Please
protect me from the danger of poison! Please protect me from the danger of opponents
and adversaries!
trukpa dang matrukpa dang nyampa dang manyampa tamché du sengé lé sung shik | dak tak lé sung
shik | dak lu lé sung shik | dak drul lé sung shik | dak jikpa tamché dang nöpa dang né
gowa dang trukpa tamché lé sung shik sung shik ||
In all instances, disturbed or undisturbed, weakened or not,2 please protect me from lions!
Please protect me from tigers! Please protect me from nāgas! Please protect me from snakes!
Svāhā! Please protect me from all dangers, harm, infectious disease and adversity! Protect!
Protect!
namo ratna trayaya | teyata | om alo talo kalo sachalo sambha murdhati raksha raksha mam ||
namo ratna-trayāya | oṃ ālo tālo kālo sacchalo saṃbhamūrdhati3 rakṣa rakṣa māṃ ||
dak dang semchen tamché la tsewa dang jikpa dang né tamché lé sung shik soha ||
Please protect me and all beings from all adversity, danger and disease! Svāhā!
könchok sum la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Three Jewels!
lhamo özer chen ma la chaktsal lo
Homage to the goddess Mārīcī!
lhamo özer chen mé nyingpo jöpar ja té
Recite this, the heart-essence of Mārīcī:
teyata | om vatali vadali varali varaha mukhi sarva dushta nam pra dushta nam tsak shur mukham
bendha bendha | bendha mukham dzambhaya tambhaya mohaya soha | om maritsyé soha | om varali
vadali vattali varaha mukhi sarva dushta nam pra dushta nam tsak shur mukham bendha bendha
soha ||
tadyathā | oṃ vattālī vadālī varālī varāha-mukhī | sarva-duṣṭa-pra-duṣṭānāṃ cakṣur-mukhaṃ bandha
bandha | bandha mukhaṃ jambhaya stambhaya mohaya svāhā | oṃ mārīcyai svāhā | oṃ varālī
vadālī vattālī varāha-mukhī sarva-duṣṭa-pra-duṣṭānāṃ cakṣur-mukhaṃ bandha bandha svāhā ||4
chomdendé kyi deké ché katsal né gelong dedak dang changchub sempa dedak dang tamché dang denpé
khor dedak dang lha dang mi dang lha mayin dang drizar chepé jikten yi rang té chomdendé
kyi sungpa la ngönpar tö do
When the Blessed One had said this, the monks and bodhisattva mahāsattvas, together with the
whole assembly and the world of gods, human beings, asuras and gandharvas, rejoiced and praised
the speech of the Blessed One.
This concludes the Noble Mārīcī Dhāraṇī.

This text was translated by the paṇḍita Amoghavajra and the lotsāwa monk, Bari Rinchen Drakpa.

| Translated by Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (Stefan Mang), 2020.

Version: 1.1-20211116
↑ The Sanskrit edition reads instead “urmasi”. This Sanskrit edition is available on GRETIL
http://gretil.sub.uni-goettingen.de/gretil/1_sanskr/4_rellit/buddh/maricdhu.htm. Inputted
by Klaus Wille the GRETIL version is based on Āryamārīcī-nāma-dhāraṇī, Dhīḥ 42 (2006), pp.
157-158.↑ From this point onward the Sanskrit edition differs and instead requests protection
from nāgas, beasts, all beings and evildoers. (nāgato me rakṣa | caṇḍamṛgato me rakṣa
| rakṣa rakṣa mama sarvasatvānāṃ ca sarvaduṣṭapraduṣṭebhyaḥ||).↑ The Sanskrit edition reads
instead “satvamudrati”.↑ The Sanskrit edition, instead of ending in svāhā, here adds: “jambhaya
jambhaya stambhaya stambhaya mohaya mohaya bhañjaya bhañjaya tarjaya tarjaya hrīṃ
hrīṃ hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ svāhā | oṃ mārīcyai sara sara muhya muhya vimuhya vimuhya apakrāmya apakrāmya
sarvaduṣṭasatvān pathe utpathe sarvavidhnavināyakā apasarantu mā tiṣṭhantu triratnasatyena
svāhā | oṃ caṇḍa paramacaṇḍa svāhā | oṃ agali pagali pañcagali sarvaduṣṭapraduṣṭānāṃ
kāyavākcittaṃ mukhaṃ cakṣuṣi bandha bandha hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ phaṭ svāhā ||”