The Dhāraṇīs That Encapsulate the Essence of the Kangyur, the Collected Words of the Buddha
revealed by Guru Chökyi Wangchuk

gyagar ké du shata saha shrika prajna paramita garbha
In Sanskrit: śatasāhasrikā-prajñāpāramitā-garbha
bö ké du sherab kyi parol tu chinpa tongtrak gyapé nyingpo
In Tibetan: sherap kyi parol tu chinpa tongtrak gyapé nyingpo
In English: The Heart Essence of the Prajñāpāramitā in One Hundred Thousand Verses
chomden dema sherab kyi parol tu chinpé nyingpo düpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the condensed heart essence of the Blessed Prajñāpāramitā!
teyata om muni muni maha muni dharma sa ka ha dharmé sha sé ni ri sarva karya sari tra mé dharma
teyata hri su hri miti dzaya vidzaya dhi dharani tradznya sa ré soha
tadyathā | oṃ mune mune mahā-mune dharma-śāka hā | dharme śāse niri sarva-kārya saritra me dharmā
| tadyathā | hri su hri smṛti | jaya vijaya | dhīḥ dhāraṇī-prajñāsāre svāhā ||
Reciting this mantra is equal to reciting the Prajñāpāramitā in One Hundred Thousand Verses.
This concludes The Heart Essence of the Prajñāpāramitā, the Great Mother.

gyagar ké du pañca vimshati saha shrika prajña paramita garbha
In Sanskrit: Pañcaviṃśatisāhasrika-prajñāpāramitā-garbha
bö ké du sherab kyi parol tu chinpa tongtrak nyishu ngapé nyingpo
In Tibetan: sherap kyi parol tu chinpa tongtrak nyishu ngapé nyingpo
In English: The Heart Essence of the Prajñāpāramitā in Twenty-Five Thousand Verses
chomden dema sherab kyi parol tu chinpa tongtrak nyishu ngapé nyingpo la chaktsal lo
Homage to the heart essence of the Blessed Prajñāpāramitā in Twenty-Five Thousand Verses!
teyata om tra dzanyé tra dzanyé maha tra dzanyé sarva bharé tra gya sarva gyana dün taré tradza
treta suka ré suka ré su kara sidi budha budha kampa kampa sara sara dhara dhara bara
bara gardza gardza gardza yati soha
tadyathā | oṃ prajñe prajñe mahā-prajñe sarva-bhare | prajñā sarva-jñāna duntare prajñā preta
| su-kare su-kare sukara siddhi | buddha buddha | kampa kampa | sara sara | dhara dhara
| vara vara | garja garja | garjayati svāhā ||
Reciting this mantra is equal to reciting the Prajñāpāramitā in Twenty-Five Thousand Verses.
This concludes The Heart Essence of the Twenty-Five Thousand Verses.

gyagar ké du arya ashta saha shrika prajña paramita garbha
In Sanskrit: āryāṣṭa-sāhasrika-prajñāpāramitā-garbha
bö ké du phakpa sherab kyi parol tu chinpa gyé tongpé nyingpo
In Tibetan: sherap kyi parol tu chinpa gyé tongpé nyingpo
In English: The Noble Heart Essence of the Prajñāpāramitā in Eight Thousand Verses
chomden dema sherab kyi parol tu chin ma la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed Prajñāpāramitā!
teyata om hri shru té mi té dza yé bidza yé soha
tadyathā | oṃ hri śrute smṛte jaye vijaye svāhā ||
Reciting this mantra is equal to reciting The Prajñāpāramitā in Eight Thousand Verses.
This concludes The Heart Essence of the Eight Thousand Verses.

gyagar ké du ashta ayuta saha shrika prajña paramita dharani
In Sanskrit: aṣṭāyuta-sahasrika-prajñāpāramitā-dhāraṇī
bö ké du sherab kyi parol tu chinpa trigyé tongpé zung
In Tibetan: sherap kyi parol tu chinpa trigyé tongpé zung
In English: The Dhāraṇī for the Prajñāpāramitā in Eighteen Thousand Verses
om mune mune maha munayé soha prajna paramita yé soha
oṃ mune mune mahāmunaye svāhā | prajñāpāramitāye svāhā ||
Reciting this mantra is equal to reciting The Prajñāpāramitā in Eighteen Thousand Verses.
This concludes The Heart Essence of the Eighteen Thousand Verses.

gyagar ké du sarva tathagata hridaya nama
In Sanskrit: sarva-tathāgata-hṛdaya nāma
bö ké du deshin shekpa tamché kyi nyingpo shé chawa
In Tibetan: deshyin shekpa tamché kyi nyingpo
In English: The Heart Essence of All the Tathāgatas
könchok sum la chak tsel lo
Homage to the Three Jewels!
sarva tathagata hridaya anu gaté om ku rum gi ni soha
sarva-tathāgata-hṛdayānu-gate oṃ ku ruṃ gi ni svāhā ||
Reciting this once will remove all obscurations accumulated throughout one hundred million eons.
This concludes the dhāraṇī The Heart Essence of All Tathāgatas.

gyagar ké du arya prajña paramita sañcaya gatha garbha
In Sanskrit: ārya-prajñāpāramitā-sañcaya-gāthā-garbha
bö ké du phakpa sherab kyi parol tu chinpa düpa tsik su chepé nyingpo
In Tibetan: phakpa sherab kyi parol tu chinpa düpa tsik su chepé nyingpo
In English: The Heart Essence of the Condensed Noble Prajñāpāramitā in a Single Line
phakpa jampal la chaktsal lo
Homage to Noble Mañjuśrī!
teyata om gaté gaté para gaté para gaté sam gaté bodhi yé soha
tadyathā | oṃ gate gate pāragate pāragate saṃgate bodhiye svāhā ||
This is equal to reciting The Condensed Noble Prajñāpāramitā.

gyagar ké du arya mañjushri tantra garbha
In Sanskrit: ārya-mañjuśrī-tantra-garbha
bö ké du phakpa jampal gyi gyü kyi yang nying
In Tibetan: phakpa jampal gyi gyü kyi yang nying
In English: The Quintessence of the Noble Mañjuśrī Tantra
jampal shönur gyurpa la chaktsal lo
Homage to Mañjuśrī the Youthful!
di tar sangyé chomden dé
In this way, to the Awakened One, the transcendent Lord,
yeshé ku té rangjungwa
The wisdom kāya, spontaneously arisen,
yeshé mik chik drima mé
The single eye of wisdom, entirely unobscured,
yeshé nangwa lam mé wa
The light of wisdom, forever shining brightly,
a ra pa tsa na ya té na ma
arapacanāya te namaḥ ||
yeshé ku nyi khyö la dü
To you, the very embodiment of wisdom, I bow.
dzokpé sangyé kün gyi shé
Thus it is explained by all the perfect buddhas.
This concludes this teaching, spoken by the transcendent lord Śākyamuni through which accomplishment
can be attained in a single month: the Essence of the Perfect Recitation of the Names
of the Wisdom Being, the Transcendent Lord Mañjuśrī.

gyagar ké du bhagawati prajnya paramita hridaya
In Sanskrit: bhagavatī-prajñāpāramitā-hṛdaya
bö ké du chomdendema sherap kyi parol tu chinmé nyingpo
In Tibetan: chomdendema sherap kyi parol tu chinmé nyingpo
In English: The Blessed Heart Essence of the Prajñāpāramitā
chomden dema sherab kyi parol tu chin ma la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed Prajñāpāramitā!
di ta té
It is like this:
ah
a
This concludes The Prajñāpāramitā in a Single Syllable.

gyagar ké du upari shuddha nama dharani
In Sanskrit: upari-śuddha-nāma-dhāraṇī
bö ké du yön yong su jongwa shé chawé zung
In Tibetan: yön yong su jongwa shé chawé zung
In English: The Dhāraṇī of the Complete Purification of Offerings
namah samanta bhadra ya bodhi sata ya maha sata ya maha karu nika ya tadya ta om namo bhara
bhara sata ya saha
namaḥ samanta-bhadrāya bodhi-sattvāya mahā-sattvāya mahā-karuṇīkāya | tadyathā | oṃ namo bhara
bhara sattvāya svāhā ||
If you recite this three times, the five misdeeds of immediate retribution will be purified.
This concludes The Dhāraṇīs Which Encapsulate the Essence of the Collected Words of the Buddha.

chomdendé deshin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangyé rinchen ö kyi gyalpo mé ö rap tu
selwa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha, Bright
Flaming King of Dazzling Jewels!
Reciting this will purify the misdeeds of killing.

chomdendé deshin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangyé rinpoché metok wang gi top la chaktsal
lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha, Jewel
Flower, Strength of Power.
Reciting this will purify misdeeds of sexual misconduct.

chomdendé deshin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangyé da’ö kyapné dampa dralé nampar gyalwa
la chaktsal lo
Homage the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha, Moonlight
Sublime Refuge, Conqueror of Foes.
Reciting this will purify misdeeds of swearing and increase lifespan.

chomdendé deshin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangyé dorjé rap tu ten ching rap tu dülwa
parol gyi top rap tu jompa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha, Most Firm
and Tame Vajra, Vanquisher of Opposing Forces.
Reciting this will purify misdeeds of improper discipline.

chomdendé deshin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangyé nampar tsekpa jewa trak gyé gang
gé lung gi jema nyé kyi drang dang nyampa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha, Equal
to the Number of Stacked Grains of Sand in One Hundred Million Ganga Rivers.
Reciting this is equal in merit to reading the Great Kangyur, the Collected Words of the Buddha.

chomdendé deshin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangyé dorjé rap tu jompa la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha, Vajra
Conqueror.
Reciting this will purify misdeeds of engaging in business.

In brief, even if one confesses before a thousand buddhas such karmic misdeeds as giving up
the holy Dharma, drawing blood from the Buddha’s body out of ill will, disrespecting one’s
parents, acting out of perverted desire, misusing food offered out of faith, or profiting
from the stolen Words of the Buddha it has not been taught that they will be purified; yet,
if one confesses the sum of one’s misdeeds by writing and reading these dhāraṇīs and names
of the buddhas, all obscurations without exception will be purified.
Just before the Mahāguru Padmasambhava left for the southwestern land of Cāmara, he put this
treasure into writing for the sake of Tibetans who would be unable to read aloud or ceremoniously
recite the entire Kangyur, the Words of the Buddha, in these degenerate times. The
Mahāguru then hid it in Lhodrak Namkechen. Samaya! Seal! Seal! Seal!
Later, Guru Chökyi Wangchuk revealed this as a treasure. May it be of benefit to beings on a
vast scale! Maṅgalaṃ!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations, 2019 (trans. Laura Dainty and Stefan Mang, edited by Peter Woods
and Libby Hogg). The Quintessence of the Noble Mañjuśrī Tantra was translated by Adam
Pearcey.

Version 1.3-20211211