Rituals for the Blue-Clad Vajrapāṇi
from the Words of the Buddha

In the language of India: Ārya-nīlāmbara-dhara-vajrapāṇi-kalpa-nāma-dhāraṇī
In the language of Tibet: Pakpa lakna dorjé gö ngönpo chen gyi choga shejawé zung (‘phags pa
lag na rdo rje gos sngon po can gyi cho ga zhes bya ba’i gzungs)
In the English language: The Noble Incantation entitled ‘The Rituals for the Blue-Clad Vajrapāṇi’

könchok sum la chaktsal lo
Homage to the Three Jewels!

nöjin gyi depön chenpo lak na dorjé gö ngönpochen
Homage to the overlord of yakṣas,1 Blue-Clad Vajrapāṇi,
sangye gang gé lung gi jema nyé kyi jesu nangwa
Authorized by as many Buddhas as grains of sand in the river Ganges,
chewa tsikpa dang tsampa
You who appear baring your fangs;
mik medak gi pungpo drawa
You whose eyes are like masses of flames;
uk meché tar barwa
You whose breath blazes with fiery tongues;
jikpé ngaro chen
You whose roar terrifies;
lakpa dang kangpa lu nor gyé kyi bü gyenpa
You whose hands and legs are adorned with the nāga Vāsuki;
lu nakpo seral khar tokpa
You who sport the nāga Kāla as a sash;
lu gawo dang nyé gawo barwé na cha jepa
You who make the nāgas Nanda and Upananda your earrings;
drul barwé rinpoche chöpen tokpa
You who don a jeweled crown of blazing snakes;
drul dukpa barwa zawa
You who consume blazing poisonous serpents;
shyin gyepa
You whose visage is expansive;
minma dang tralwa düpa
You whose eyebrows and forehead are tensed;
yasö ma chu nenpa
You whose upper teeth bite your lower lip;
shinjé chajé chen
You whose accoutrements are those of Yāma;
ché lok tar gyuwa
You whose tongue moves as fast as lightning;
süpo ché drul zawa
You whose large belly digests snakes;
lakpa dabpé dré jikpar jepa
You who terrify with the sound of clapping hands;
lü gyalpo dab zang karak su chingpa
You, on whose belt, Garuḍa, the ruler of nāgas, is tied;
a la la shyé drokpar jepa
You who proclaim, “A la la!”
gyatsö zab su paktsé gyé tri yöpa kangpé pümor chinpa
You whose shins reach 80,000 leagues down to the depths of the ocean;
wangpo dang nyima trakpa la kurwa
You who bear Indra and Sūrya upon your shoulders;
lu tamché lakpar jepa
You who annihilate all nāgas;
gegyang chenpo drokpé küntu trukpar jepa
You whose bellowing laughter makes everything tremble;
shinjé zukchen
You who have the appearance of Yāma;
kham sumpa jikpar jepa
You who frighten the three realms;
lu nam chiwar jepa la chaktsal lo
You, the slayer of nāgas!
Then, recite the vidyā-mantra taught by as many blessed buddhas as there are grains of sand
in the river Ganges:
teyata bho bho vam naga adhipatayé idam nilam bara dhara shariram benza pani hridayam yah smati
tramata utsadanam bhabi shyati
tadyathā | bho bho vān | nāgādhipataye | idam nīlām-bara-dhara-śarīraṃ vajrapāṇi-hṛdayaṃ yaḥ
smāti-kramatha uccāṭanam bhaviṣyati ||
teyata buddha buddha vibuddha vibuddha mahi prapta hara hara naganam prahara prahara naganam
chinda chinda naga hridayani bhinda bhinda naga marmani vishiryantu naga sharirani vispotaya
naga nayanani
tadyathā | buddha buddha | vibuddha vibuddha | mahīprāpta | hara hara nāgānāṃ | prahara prahara
nāgānāṃ | chinda chinda nāga-hṛdayāni | bhindha bhindha nāga-marmāṇi | viśīryantu nāga-śarīrāṇi
| visphoṭaya nāganayanāni ||
teyata hung pé naga vidaranaya pé nagotsadanaya pé nilam vasanaya pé apratihata bala para kramaya
pé kritantaya pé kritanta rupaya pé roshanaya pé trasanaya pé kumbhandotsadanaya pé
preta pishaca vinashakaraya pé yaksha apasmara vinashakaraya pé hasa hasa dhara dhara maraya
maraya nashaya nashaya sarva bighnam vinashakaraya pé sarva shatrun sangha vinashakaraya
pé
tadyathā | hūṃ phaṭ | nāga-vidāraṇāya phaṭ | nāgoccāṭanāya phaṭ | nīlān vasanāya phaṭ | apratihata-bala-parākramāya
phaṭ | kṛtāntāya phaṭ | kṛtānta-rūpāya phaṭ | roṣanāya phaṭ | trāsanāya
phaṭ | kumbhaṇḍoccāṭanāya phaṭ | preta-piśāca-vināśakarāya phaṭ | yakṣāpāsmara-vināśakarāya
phaṭ | hasa hasa | dhara dhara | māraya māraya | nāśaya nāśaya | sarva-vighnān vināśakarāya
phaṭ | sarva-śatrūn-saṅgha-vināśakarāya phaṭ ||
om nilam bhara dhara benza panir ajnapayati soha
oṃ nīlāmbaradhara-vajrapāṇir-ājñāpayati svāhā ||
The rituals for this mantra are as follows:
If a person is infected by a yakṣa, bless water with the mantra, sprinkle it on the person,
and then the spirit will be expelled.
If you wish to repel nāgas, use a branch of meadowsweet or Nepalese pomegranate trees.2
Against pretas and apasmāras,3 use a blessed thread.
In order to dispel infectious diseases, hemiplegia, loss of appetite, use a blessed blue thread.
If you desire wealth, fast for one day and burn incense. Thus within your dreams all the virtue
and non-virtue will be revealed and eventually you will receive seven thousand gold coins.
If you wish to release a seal, use ash.
If you wish to unlock something, use mustard seeds.
For protection against danger, use old butter, ash or mustard seeds.
Against all dangerous diseases, tie a protection knot with a blessed blue thread and wear it
around your neck. This will provide supreme protection.
Against grahas that befall children4 tie a protection knot with a blessed five-colored thread
and wear it around your neck. This will provide supreme protection.
If you wish to avert thieves, use earth.
For poison, use in cleansing with kuśa grass.
In order to protect yourself, use it mentally or use water.
To protect others, use a blessed blue thread.
For all these activities, recite the mantra three, seven, fourteen, twenty-one, or one hundred
and eight times, and all will be accomplished.
If you offer blue flowers and recite the mantra one thousand times in front of a stūpa containing
relics, you will reach accomplishment.
This concludes The Noble “The Rituals for Blue-Clad Vajrapāṇi” Incantation.
This text was translated by the Indian paṇḍita Jñānagarbha and the lotsāwa monk, Lu’i Wangpo.5

| Translated by Stefan Mang and Peter Woods, 2019. Many thanks to Wiesiek Mical for checking
the Sanskrit mantra.

Version: 1.2-20211116
↑ Yakṣas are a class of semi-divine beings that haunt or protect natural places and cities.
They can be malevolent or benevolent, and are known for bestowing wealth and worldly boons.↑
The plant smyag shad likely refers to Spiraea arcuata, a type of meadowsweet. The plant
bal po’i se’u (dāḍima) appears to be a type of pomegranate tree commonly found in Nepal.↑
Apasmāra (brjed byed) is the name for epilepsy, but also refers to the demon that causes
epilepsy and loss of consciousness.↑ Grahas are a type of evil spirit known to exert a harmful
influence on the human body and mind. Grahas are closely associated with the planets
and other astronomical bodies.↑ The Tibetan edition and English translation of this text follow
the Dergé recension (Tōh. 748). However, we have replaced the translators’ colophon
with the one given in the Tibetan imperial translation catalogue (ldan dkar ma) as well as
other editions of this dhāraṇī. As these sources confirm, this text was translated during
the first dissemination of Buddhism to Tibet. The Dergé recension’s colophon is identical
with that of the commentary attributed to Nāgārjuna (Tōh. 2675). Since the Dergé recension
of this dhāraṇī differs only slightly from that of the older version, there is reason to
believe that the Dergé recension is a revised edition based on Nāgārjuna’s commentary (Tōh.
2675). The colophon in the Dergé recension reads: “This text was translated by the Indian
paṇḍita Dīpaṃkara Śrījñāna and the Tibetan Lotsāwa Gya Tsöndrü Sengé at the entrance gate
of Śrī Nālandā.” (rgya kar gyi mkhan po dīpaṃkara śrījñāna dang/ bod kyi lo tsā ba rgya
brtson ’grus seng ges dpal na len dra’i sgo ’gram du bsgyur/)