The Noble Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī
from the Words of the Buddha

gyagar ké du arya vasudhara nama dhara ni
In the language of India: Ārya Vasudhārā-nāma-dhāraṇī
böké du pakpa nor gyi gyün chejawé zung
In the language of Tibet: Pakpa nor gyi gyün chejawé zung (‘phags pa nor gyi rgyun ces bya ba’i
gzungs)
In the English language: The ‘Stream of Wealth’ Incantation

sangye dang changchub sempa tamché la chaktsal lo
Homage to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas!

diké dak gi töpa dü chik na chomdendé kaushambi na tserma chen shyejawé nak chenpo na gelong
ngabgya tsam gyi gelong gi gendün chenpo dang changchub sempa sempa chenpo sangye kyi yönten
tamché dang denpa rabtu mangpo dang tab chik tu shyuk té
Thus I have heard: At one time the Blessed One was dwelling near Kauśāmbī in the great forest
called Kaṇṭaka, together with a great assembly of about five hundred monks and a vast assembly
of bodhisattva mahāsattvas who had all the qualities of the buddhas.
dé tsé kaushambi drongkhyer chenpo na khyimdak dawa zangpo shyejawa wangpo nyewar shyiwa yi
nyewar shyiwa bu po dang bumo mangwa zami mangpo dang denpa dé ching cher depa shyik nepa
dé
At that time there lived in the great city of Kauśāmbī a householder by the name of Sucandra
whose senses were composed and whose mind was at ease. He had many faithful and devoted sons
and daughters as well as dependents.
chomdendé gala ba der song té chin né chomdendé kyi shyab lago bö chaktsal té len bumtrak dumar
korwa jé né chok chik tu duk go
Sucandra approached the Blessed One, paid his respect by touching his head to the feet of the
Blessed One, and circumambulated the Blessed One many hundred thousands of times.
chok chik tu duk né khyimdak dawa zangpö chomdendé la diké ché sol to
Finally, he sat down to one side. While seated there, Sucandra the householder said the following
to the Blessed One:
galté shyü né shyuwa lungtenpé ledu chomdendé kyi dak la kab ché na chomdendé deshyin shekpa
drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye la dak chok gashyik shyu lak so
“I would like to ask the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat, the complete and perfect Buddha
a question, in case the Blessed One could afford the time to answer it.”
deké ché solwa dang chomdendé kyi khyimdak dawa zangpo la diké ché katsal to
The Blessed One then replied to Sucandra the householder as follows:
khyimdak khyö chi dang chi döpa dri shik dang khyö kyi jitar dripé driwa lungtenpé ngé khyö
kyi sem rangpar ja o
“Householder, please ask whatever you wish. I shall answer your question and so put your concerns
to rest.”
deké ché katsal pa dang khyimdak dawa zangpö chomdendé la lek so shyé sol té chomdendé kyi tar
nyen né chomdendé la diké ché sol to
To these words of the Blessed One Sucandra the householder responded, “Very well, Blessed One,”
and asked the Blessed One the following:
chomdendé rik kyi bu am rik kyi bumo ulpor gyurpa lé jitar ulwa machipar gyur shying dro né
kyi teb na yang dro né machipar gyurpa lak
“Blessed One, how can a son or daughter of noble family who suffers from poverty free themselves
from their poverty? Likewise, if they suffer from disease, how can they free themselves
from their disease?”
dené chomdendé kyi khyen shyindu khyimdak dawa zangpo la diké ché katsal to
The Blessed One then understood, and he said to Sucandra the householder:
khyimdak khyö chi chir ulpö döndu dri deké ché katsal pa dang
“Householder, why do you ask me about poverty?”
chomdendé la khyimdak dawa zangpö diké ché sol to
Sucandra the householder replied to the Blessed One:
chomdendé dak ni ulwa mangwa dang sowa mangwa dang bu po dang bumo mangwa zami mangpo dang denpa
lak té dé ledu gang gi semchen ulpo nam kyi ulwa machipar gyurwa dang dro né kyi tebpa
nam dro né machipar gyurwa dang nor dang dru dang dzö dang bangdzö mangpo dang denpar gyurwa
dang dukpa dang yi duchi pa dang tong na yi du tepa dang wangchuk tu gyurwa dang jindak
dzöpé mi tsal shying yik dang ser dang nor dang drü dzö dang bangdzö nam dang norbu dang
mutik dang dorjé dang baidurya dang dung dang men shel dang jiru dang salé dram dang ulwé
ma tsal ching jorwar gyurwa dang khyim gyi bu mé dang zami nam tenpar gyurwé chö kyi namdrang
dé chomdendé kyi lekpar shé du sol
“Blessed One, although I am very poor, I have to take care of many sons, daughters and dependents.
Therefore, I would like to request the Blessed One for a Dharma teaching that makes
the poor wealthy and restores the ill to good health, that grants us wealth and grain and
treasures and vaults of treasure, that makes us pleasant, charming, beautiful and lordly,
that attracts patrons without needing to ask, and that grants jewels, gold, riches, stores
of grain, and vaults of treasure, as well as gems, pearls, diamonds, lapis lazuli, conch
shells, crystals, coral, gold and silver without needing to search or beg, and that renders
one’s partner and dependents stable and secure.”
deké ché solwa dang chomdendé kyi khyimdak dawa zangpo la diké ché katsal to
This being said, the Blessed One replied then to the householder Sucandra:
khyimdak depé dü kalwa drangmepa depar gyurpa dé tsé dé dü na chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa
yangdakpar dzokpé sangye rigpa dang shyab su denpa dewar shekpa jikten khyenpa kyebu
dulwé khalo gyurwa lanamepa lha dang mi nam kyi tönpa sangye chomdendé dorjé chang gyatsö
yang shyejawa jikten du jung té
“Householder, once upon a time, incalculable eons ago, the Blessed One, the Tathāgata, the Arhat,
the complete and perfect Buddha, dwelled in the world with perfect knowledge and with
virtuous conduct. This sugata, the knower of worlds, the leader for those to be tamed, the
unsurpassed teacher of gods and men, the Blessed Buddha, was named Vajradhara-sāgaranirghoṣa.
rik kyi bu ngé deshyin shekpa dé lé nor gyi gyün chejawé zung di tö té zung shying chang lak
kün chubpar jé jesu yirangwar jé shing shyendak la yang gyacher yangdakpar rabtu ten té
O noble son, it is from this tathāgata that I heard and retained the Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī. I kept
it, recited it, comprehended it, rejoiced in it, and taught it extensively to others.
rik kyi bu da yang ngé dé shepar ja o
O noble son, I shall now share it with you.
rik kyi bu zung di tü mi nam nampar to tsampar mi jé do mi mayinpa nam nampar to tsampar mi
jé do nöjin nam nampar to tsampar mi jé do sinpo nam nampar to tsampar mi jé do yidak nam
nampar to tsampar mi jé do shaza nam nampar to tsampar mi jé do jungpo nam nampar to tsampar
mi jé do drulbum nam nampar to tsampar mi jé do jé jé nam nampar to tsampar mi jé do nönpo
nam nampar to tsampar mi jé do lü sulpo nam nampar to tsampar mi jé do lha nam nampar
to tsampar mi jé do lha mayin nam nampar to tsampar mi jé do zé su mi tsangwa zawa nam dang
zé su chin tungwa nam dang zé su traktung ba nam dang zé su shaza ba nam dang zé su nak
tungwa nam dang zé su shyak zawa nam dang zé su kang zawa nam dang zé su ngarnab zawa nam
dang zé su tor khung né babpa tungwa nam dang zé su uk ngubpa nam dang jungwa zawé bar nam
nampar tsewar mingyur ro
O noble son, through the power of this dhāraṇī no human will ever harm you. No yakṣa will ever
harm you. No rākṣasa will ever harm you. No preta will ever harm you. No piśāca will ever
harm you. No bhūta will ever harm you. No kumbhāṇḍa will ever harm you. No apasmāra will
ever harm you. No ostāraka will ever harm you. No kaṭapūtana will ever harm you. No deva
will ever harm you. No asura will ever harm you. No demons, whether they feed on feces, urine,
blood, flesh, pus, grease, marrow, snot, effluent, or breath, nor spirits who are able
to possess you, will ever harm you!
rik kyi bu nor gyi gyün gyi zung di rik kyi bu am rik kyi bumo gang gi khyim na yö dam nying
la yö dam lak na yö dam lekbam du chü dam töpar gyur tam kün chubpar jé sam lak sam zung
ngam jesu yirangwar jé sam shyendak la gyacher rabtu tenpé rik kyi bu am rik kyi bumo dé la
yünringpö dön dang penpa dang gewa dang drubpa dang dewa dang lo lekwar gyur ro
O noble son, the son or daughter of noble family who takes the Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī and places
it in their home, takes it to heart, holds it in their hands, renders it in text, listens
to it, comprehends it, reads it, memorizes it, rejoices in it, and extensively teaches it
to others, will enjoy lasting benefits, welfare, goodness, advantages, pleasures, and good
harvests.
su shyik deshyin shekpa nam la chöpa jé té nor gyi gyün gyi zung di nam ché na len nyi sam len
sum mam len shyi tön na dé lha yi rang té deshyin shekpé tenpa la gawa dang chö dakpa jepé
gawa dang gendün dakpa jepé gawa dang chöma bala gawa dang lhakpé sampé daknyi ong té
drü charbeb so
Whoever worships the tathāgatas and then at midnight recites the Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī two, three
or four times will cause the deities to rejoice. They will bring delight through the teachings
of the Tathāgata, and through contributing to the promulgation of the Dharma and development
of the Saṅgha, and bring delight to those who teach the Dharma. Noble thoughts will
come to them and a rain of grains will shower down upon them.

namo benza dhara sagara nirghoshaya tathagataya |
namo vajradhara-sāgara-nirghoṣāya tathāgatāya |
teyata | om surubé bhadré bhadra bati amgalé mamga é mamgala bati alé atsalé atsala balé udghatini
udbhédini shasya bati dhana bati dhanya bati shri mati trabha bati amalé bimalé nimalé
rurumé surupé surupa bimalé bimalé tsalé atsanasté atanasté bitanaté bishokeshi bishonishi
amkuré mamkuré trabamkuré biramé bidhamé ririmé didimé dudumé khakhamé tataré tara tara
tara tara badzré badzré badzropamé také také thaké thaké ukké bukké thaké tharaké abartani
barashani shadani benzadhara sagara nirghosham tathagatam anusmara smara smara sarva tathagata
satyam anusmara dharma satyam anusmara sangha satyam anusmara data data pura pura
puraya puraya purani bhara bharani amalé sumamgalé shanta mati shubha mati mamgala bhani
maha mati bhadra bati trabha bati sutsandra mati agatsa gatsa samayam anusmara soha | awaranim
anusmara soha | trabhawam anusmara soha | didim anusmara soha tédzom anusmara soha |
bidzayam anusmara soha | hridayam anusmara soha sarva sato binayam anusmara soha |
tadyathā | oṃ surūpe bhadre bhadravati aṅgale maṅgale maṅgalavati ale acale acala-bale udghātini
udbhedini śasyavati dhanavati dhānyavati śrīmati prabhavati amale vimale nirmale rurume
surūpe surūpavimale vimale cale arcanaste atanaste vitanaste viśvakeśi viśvaniśi aṅkure
maṅkure prabhaṅkure virame vidhame ririme dhidhime dhudhume khakhame tatare tara tara tāra
tāra vajre vajre vajropame ṭake ṭake ṭhake ṭhake ukke bukke ṭhake ṭharake āvartani varṣaṇi
(ni)ṣ(p)ādani vajradhāra-sāgara-nirdhoṣaṃ tathāgataṃ anusmara smara smara sarva-tathāgata-satyam-anusmara
dharma-satyam-anusmara saṅgha-satyam-anusmara data data pūra pūra pūraya
pūraya pūraṇi bhara bharaṇi amale sumaṅgale śāntamati śubhamati maṅgalabhaṇi mahāmati bhadravati
prabhavati sucandramati āgacchāgaccha samayam-anusmara svāhā | avaraṇim-anusmara
svāhā | prabhavam-anusmara svāhā | dīdim-anusmara svāhā | tejom-anusmara svāhā | vijayam-anusmara
svāhā | hṛdayam-anusmara svāhā | sarva-sattva-vijayam-anusmara svāhā |
om basudharé soha | om basushriyé soha | om shribasu soha | om basu soha |
oṃ vasudhāre svāhā | oṃ vasuśriye svāhā | oṃ śrīvasu svāhā | oṃ vasu svāhā ||1

rik kyi bu di ni nor gyi gyün chejawé zung té zung ngak di tü mugé dang né dang chi ngé jungwar
mingyur ro
Noble son, this is the Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī. Famine, diseases, and untimely death will be averted
through the power of this dhāraṇī-mantra.
rik kyi bu su shyik deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye nam la chöpa jé té nor
gyi gyün gyi zung kyi sang ngak kyi tsik didak nub chik tön na dené ngödrub tu gyur ro
Noble son, whoever worships the tathāgatas, the arhats, the complete and perfect buddhas, and
recites the words of this secret mantra, the Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī, while facing the west will
reach accomplishment.
gyepé döndu dak gi khyim mam shyen gyi khyim mam netsangmé bangdzö dam né gangyang rungwar deshyin
shekpa chenrezik wangchuk dang sangye dang changchub sempa tamché dang sang ngak kyi
lhé chir tsenden gyi kyilkhor dru shyir jé té nub chik tön na rik kyi bu dé khyim nor dang
dru dang ser dang ngul dang yojé tamché kyi gyün mi chenpö tsé tsam gyi gangwar gyur ro
jikpa dang nöpa tamché kyang mepar gyur ro
To explain this in more detail: Arrange a maṇḍala in a suitable place—such as your own house,
another person’s house, a clean place, or a storehouse—using sandalwood for the Tathāgata,
Lord Avalokiteśvara, and all the buddhas and bodhisattvas and secret mantra deities, and
recite the dhāraṇī while facing the west. Noble son, the person’s house will soon be completely
filled with a stream of jewels, grain, gold, silver, and all necessities, and all
danger and harm will be brought to an end.
rik kyi bu dé chir khyö rabtu drim la nor gyi gyün gyi zung di zung shik chong shik lhok shik
tön chik shyendak la yang gyacher yangdakpar rabtu tön chik dang dé khyö kyi yünringpö dön
dang penpa dang dewar gyur ro
Noble son, therefore, hold the Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī dear. Retain it! Memorize it! Recite it! Teach
it! Explain it to others as well! This will lead to your lasting benefit, welfare and
happiness.”
chomdendé lek so shyé sol té
“Very well, Blessed One!” said the householder Sucandra upon receiving the Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī
from the Blessed One.
khyimdak dawa zangpö chomdendé lé nor gyi gyün gyi zung di tö né tsim shying ga la gu shying
yi rang té rabtu ga né gawa dang yi dewa kyé té chomdendé kyi shyab lago bö chaktsal né chomdendé
la diké ché sol to
Pleased, glad, joyful, delighted, happy, satisfied and joyous was Sucandra as he paid homage
by touching the feet of the Blessed One to his head. He then said to the Blessed One:
chomdendé dak gi nor gyi gyün ché gyiwa lang lak zung su zin lak zung lak lak lak kün chubpar
gyi lak jesu yirangwar gyi lak so shyendak la yang gyacher yangdakpar rabtu tenpar gyi lak
so
“Blessed One, now that I have received the ritual for Vasudhārā, I will keep this dhāraṇī in
mind; I will memorize it; I will recite it; I will master it; I will delight in it; and I
will explain it in detail to others as well!”
dé kechik tsam la khyimdak dawa zangpö bangdzö nam yongsu gangwar gyur to
At that very moment, Sucandra the householder’s storehouses became completely full.
dené khyimdak dawa zangpö chomdendé la len bumtrak dumar korwa jé té chomdendé kyi shyab la
chaktsal né chomdendé kyi té né song ngo
Sucandra the householder circumambulated the Blessed One many hundreds of thousands of times,
and after touching his head to the feet of Blessed One, he left his presence.

dené chomdendé kyi tsé dang denpa küngawo la katsal pa
The Blessed One then spoke to venerable Ānanda:
küngawo khyö song la khyimdak dawa zangpö khyim nor dang drü yongsu gangwa pünsum tsokpa dang
dzö chenpo dang bangdzö yongsu gangwa nam la tö
“Ānanda, go to Sucandra the householder, the one whose home is abundantly filled with all kinds
of riches and grains and whose massive treasury and storehouses are replete with all one
could require.”
dené tsé dang denpa küngawö chomdendé kyi tar nyen né kaushambi drongkhyer chenpo gala ba dang
khyimdak dawa zangpö khyim gala ba der song té chin né nang du shyukpa dang nor dang drü
yongsu gangwa pünsum tsokpa dang rinpoche pünsum tsokpa dang yojé tamché kyi dzöpa chenpo
dang bangdzö nam kyang yongsu gangwar tong ngo tong né kyang tsim shying ga la gu shying
yi rang té rabtu ga né gawa dang yi dewa kyé té chomdendé gala ba der song ngo
At these words of the Blessed One, venerable Ānanda went to the great city of Kauśāmbī where
Sucandra’s house was located. Upon reaching the house he entered, and he saw that it was
filled with an abundance of riches and grains. Precious gems were abundant, and there was
a massive storehouse of all kinds of goods. The treasuries likewise were completely full!
Pleased, glad, joyful, delighted, happy, satisfied and joyous upon seeing this, he returned
to the Blessed One.
dené tsé dang denpa küngawo yatsen du dzin ching gawa dang yi dewa kyé né chomdendé la diké
ché sol to
Venerable Ānanda approached the Blessed One, and, in his amazement, happiness and joy, he said
this to the Blessed One:
chomdendé gang gi khyimdak dawa zangpo nor mang shying dzö chenpo dang bangdzö nam kyang nor
dang dru pünsum tsokpé gyu gang lak kyen gang lak
“Blessed One, why does Sucandra the householder have so much wealth? What is the cause and what
are the circumstances for his treasury and storehouses to be replete with riches and grains?”
chomdendé kyi katsal pa
The Blessed One replied:
küngawo rik kyi bu khyimdak dawa zangpo dé ching chok tu dé ching gewé sampachen dé nor gyi
gyün gyi zung di zung shying rabtu tön té lang shing lak kün chubpar jé jesu yirangwar jé
shing shyendak la yang gyacher yangdakpar rabtu tenpé chir ro
“Ānanda, it is because the noble son Sucandra the householder has received and chanted the Vasudhārā
Dhāraṇī with devotion, great faith, and pure motivation. He kept it, recited it,
mastered it, delighted in it, and expounded it in detail to others as well.
küngawo dé chir khyö kyi kyang nor gyi gyün gyi zung di long shik chong shik lhok shik tön chik
zung shik kün chubpar gyi shik shyendak la yang gyacher yangdakpar rabtu tön chik dang
dé ni kyewo mangpo la penpa dang kyewo mangpo la dewa dang jikten la nying tsewa dang kyewo
palpo ché dang lha dang mi nam kyi dön dang penpa dang dewar gyur ro
Ānanda, therefore, you too should receive the Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī, keep it in mind, recite it,
teach it, memorize it, master it, and explain it to others in detail. This will benefit many
individuals. It will bring them happiness. It will bring love and compassion to the world,
and it will bring benefit and happiness to hosts of beings, gods and humans alike.
küngawo su shyik rik ngak di lé shyendu mawa ni lha dang chepa dang dü dang chepa dang tsangpa
dang chepa dang gejong dang dramzer chepa dang lha dang mi dang lha mayin du chepé jikten
na ngé ma tong ngo len nyi su tön tam len sum du tön kyang galwar jepa dé ni nemé do
Ānanda, I do not see anyone in worlds of gods, māras, brahmas, humans, or asuras, who would
say otherwise about this vidyā-mantra. It is impossible not to receive the mantra’s benefits
having recited it two or three times.
küngawo zung kyi sang ngak kyi tsik didak ni michepa yin no
Ānanda, the secret mantra words of this dhāraṇī are indestructible.
küngawo didak ni semchen gewé tsawa zepa nam kyi nalam du drakpar mingyur na lekbam la yiger
driwa dang yi la zungwa tachi mö
Ānanda, it is clear that these words, when heard, will benefit2 even those whose roots of virtue
have been exhausted. Thus, there is no need to mention the benefits of writing them down
in a book or memorizing them.
dé chi chir shyé na di ni deshyin shekpa tamché kyi katsal té zung ngak di ni semchen ulpo dang
né natsok kyi zirwa dang jikpa dang semchen dangwé nöpar jepa tamché kyi döndu deshyin
shekpa tamché kyi sungpa dang shepa dang jesu yirangwa dang rabtu chewa dang ngakpa dang
trolwa dang salwar dzepa dang kyepa dang jin gyi labpa dang chö kyi chakgyé tabpa dang töpa
dang nyenpar jöpa dang gowar dzepa dang nyepé chir ro
Why is this the case? It is because this dhāraṇī has been taught by all the tathāgatas. This
dhāraṇī-mantra has been spoken, explained, honored, revealed, praised, unraveled, clarified,
expounded, blessed, validated by the dharma seal, commended, sung, declared, and told
by all the tathāgatas for the welfare of all sentient beings who live in poverty, suffer from
diseases, live in fear, or are harmed by the wicked.
dené tsé dang denpa küngawo ten lé lang té dé tsé talmo jar né chedu jöpa di chedu jö ching
tsik su chepa didak sol to
Venerable Ānanda then rose from his seat and with his hands folded, he uttered this praise in
verse:
sangye chomden sam gyi mi khyab té
“Inconceivable is the Blessed Buddha.
sangye chö kyang sam gyi mi khyab lak
Inconceivable too is the Buddha’s Dharma.
sam gyi mi khyabpa la dé nam kyi
For those with faith in the inconceivable,
nampar minpa ang sam gyi mi khyab lak
Inconceivable too will be their results.
shyiwa chiyang khyenpa tamché khyen
Tranquil knower of everything and all,
chö kyi gyalpo gashi mi ngawa
Dharma King free of aging and death,
yeshe parol dröpar jön gyurpa
The one who’s arrived at wisdom’s far shore,
sangye papo khyö la chaktsal lo
Buddha the Hero, to you I pay homage!”
dené tsé dang denpa küngawo tsim shying ga la gu shying yi rang né rabtu ga té gawa dang yi
dewa kyé né chomdendé la diké ché sol to
Venerable Ānanda was satisfied and joyful, gladden and overjoyed. In his joy and happiness,
he said to the Blessed One:
chomdendé chö kyi namdrang di ming chi lak di jitar zungwar gyi
“Blessed One, what is the name of this form of Dharma? How shall I remember it?”
chomdendé kyi katsal pa
The Blessed One replied:
küngawo di ni khyimdak dawa zangpö shyüpa shyejawar zung shik nor dang dru dang rinpoche tamché
kyi ter shyejawar yang zung shik deshyin shekpa tamché kyi ngakpa nor gyi gyün gyi zung
shyejawar yang zung shik
“Ānanda, remember this teaching as ‘The Question of Sucandra the Householder.’ Remember it as
‘The Treasury of Wealth and Grain and All That is Precious.’ Remember it as ‘The Vasudhārā
Dhāraṇī Praised by All the Tathāgatas.’”
chomdendé kyi deké ché katsal né tsé dang denpa küngawo dang gelong dedak dang changchub sempa
dedak dang tamché dang denpé khor dedak dang lha dang mi dang lha mayin dang drizar chepé
jikten yi rang té chomdendé kyi sungpa la ngönpar tö do
When the Blessed One had said this, Venerable Ānanda, the monks and bodhisattva mahāsattvas,
together with the whole assembly and the world of gods, human beings, asuras and gandharvas
rejoiced and praised the speech of the Blessed One.
This concludes the Noble Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī.

| Translated by Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (Stefan Mang and Peter Woods), 2019. Further suggestions
and clarifications based on the Sanskrit3 have been kindly given by Wiesiek Mical.

Version: 1.2-20211116
↑ Slight emendations have been made to the dhāraṇī based on comparing several Tibetan editions
and in particular with reference to a similar Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī preserved in Sanskrit.
This Sanskrit edition is available on GRETIL http://gretil.sub.uni-goettingen.de/gretil/1_sanskr/4_rellit/buddh/vadhdhju.htm.
Inputted by members of the Digital Sanskrit Buddhist Canon
Input Project Member the GRETIL version is based on Padmanabh S. Jaini, “Vasudhārā Dhāraṇī:
A Buddhist work in use among the Jainas of Gujerat,” in Shri Mahavir Jaina Vidyalaya
Golden Jubilee Volume, Part 1, Bombay 1968, 30–45. A similar Sanskrit edition is also discussed
and partially translated by Ratna Handurukande. See: Handurukande, Ratna. Vasudhārādhāraṇī
(kathā). In Buddhist and Pali Studies in honour of the Venerable Professor Kakkapalliye
Anuruddha, (ed.) K.L. Dhammajoti and Y. Karunadasa. Centre of Buddhist Studies. The
University of Hong Kong, 2009, 53–64.↑ It appears that a word such as benefit (kuśala, dge
ba) is missing in the Tibetan and Sanskrit edition of this dhāraṇī.↑ That is the above mentioned
Sanskrit edition available on GRETIL.